[EDU-2611] vulcan  and frameworks (#424)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/devtools/azion-edge-runtime/compatibility/frameworks.mdx

---
title: Frameworks compatibility
description: Compatibility between Azion and web frameworks through Vulcan.
namespace: documentation_products_runtime_frameworks
permalink: /documentation/products/devtools/frameworks-compatibility/
---

> ## [Vulcan](https://github.com/aziontech/vulcan)

Reviewer: Não sei a implicação de colocar links em headers 😨

[Vulcan](https://github.com/aziontech/vulcan) is Azion's framework adapter built to run on our Edge Runtime. It's an evolving project aimed at supporting various JavaScript frameworks. The project is open source and encourages community contributions.

Azion provides different ways to get started and work with web frameworks: 

- [Azion CLI](/en/documentation/products/azion-cli/overview/)
- [Real-Time Manager](/en/documentation/products/start-with-a-template/)

---

## Compute x Deliver

Azion employs the terminology `compute` and `deliver` to describe the operational modes of applications within its framework:

| Mode | Description |
|-     |-            |

> |Compute | This mode is designed for applications that require computational processing at the Edge, whether it's for Front-End Server-Side Rendering (SSR) or Back-End tasks. In Compute Mode, Azion enables the execution of code and processing of dynamic content at the Edge to enhance performance and responsiveness. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Compute | This mode is designed for applications that require computational processing at the Edge, whether it's for Front-End Server-Side Rendering (SSR) or Back-End tasks. In Compute Mode, Azion enables the execution of code and processing of dynamic content at the Edge to enhance performance and responsiveness. | 
```

> |Deliver | Deliver Mode is tailored for frameworks that primarily focus on handling and routing incoming requests at the Edge, with an emphasis on efficiently **serving static files**. While applications in Deliver Mode do not execute dynamic code, they excel in optimizing the delivery of static content to end-users, thereby ensuring smooth and fast content distribution. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Deliver | Deliver Mode is tailored for frameworks that primarily focus on handling and routing incoming requests at the Edge, with an emphasis on efficiently **serving static files**. While applications in Deliver Mode do not execute dynamic code, they excel in optimizing the delivery of static content to end-users, thereby ensuring smooth and fast content distribution. |
```

---

## Next.js 

**SSR** 
(compute)

For Next.js Server-side rendering, Azion supports:

- Next.js **version 12.3.1**
- Pages router
- Next Node runtime version 12.3.1
- Pages format
- Index page (static)
- API Route 
- SSR page
- Dynamic route
- Nested route

**Currently the following implementations are in progress and aren't supported yet**:

- Edge Runtime
- Next.js 13.x.y features (example: `app router`)

:::note
If the Next.js project isn't in **v12.3.1**, the build process won't work.
:::

**SSG**
(static)

**Implementation**

- [Azion CLI how to build with Next.js](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/next/)

---

## Angular 

> (static)

Reviewer: Badge? 👀

Author: boaaaaa

> Angular is an open-source web framework designed with an emphasis on speed and suitability for websites that contain substantial content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular is an open-source web framework designed with an emphasis on speed and suitability for websites that contain substantial content.
```

Learn more about [React](https://react.dev/).

**Implementation**

- [Azion CLI how to build with React](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/react/)
- [RTM React boilerplate](/en/documentation/products/guides/react-boilerplate/)

---

## Vite
(static)

Vite is listed on [the Jamstack documentation](https://jamstack.org/generators/vite/) as a static site generator, aligned to the Jamstack approach.

Learn more about [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).

- [Azion CLI how to build with Vite](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/vite/)

---

## Vue
(static)

Vue.js is a user-friendly, versatile, and approachable JavaScript framework for building web applications and user interfaces. Its progressive nature, reactivity system, component-based architecture, and thriving community make it a popular choice for both beginners and experienced developers in the world of front-end web development.

Learn more about [Vue](https://vuejs.org/guide/introduction.html).

**Implementation**

- [Azion CLI how to build with Vue](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/vue/)

> - [RTM Vue boilerplate](/en/documentation/products/guides/vue-boilerplate/)

Reviewer: Adicionar contributors?

Author: n ta funcionando do jeito que esperávamos

---

## Next.js 

**SSR** 
<Badge variant="accent">
  Compute
</Badge>

For Next.js Server-side rendering, Azion supports:

- Next.js **version 12.3.1**
- Pages router
- Next Node runtime version 12.3.1
- Pages format
- Index page (static)
- API Route 
- SSR page
- Dynamic route
- Nested route

Currently the following implementations are in progress and **aren't supported**:

- Edge Runtime
- Next.js 13.x.y features (example: `app router`)

:::note
If the Next.js project isn't in **v12.3.1**, the build process won't work.
:::

**SSG**
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

Implementation:

- [Azion CLI how to build with Next.js](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/next/)

---

## Angular 
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

Angular is an open-source web framework designed with an emphasis on speed and suitability for websites that contain substantial content.

Learn more about [Angular](https://angular.io/docs).

> - [Azion CLI how to build with Angular](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/angular/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementation:

- [Azion CLI how to build with Angular](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/angular/)
```

- [RTM Angular boilerplate](/en/documentation/products/guides/angular-boilerplate/)

---

## Astro
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

Astro offers a modern and user-friendly method for creating websites. It blends established performance principles from decades of web development with the convenience of component-based development trends. You can use your preferred JavaScript framework and, by default, Astro ensures that only the essential JavaScript is sent to the user.

> **Implementation**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementation:
```

Pra ficar igual o outro

- [Azion CLI how to build with Astro](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/astro/)
- [RTM Astro boilerplate](/en/documentation/products/guides/astro-boilerplate/)

---

## Hexo
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

Hexo is listed on [the Jamstack documentation](https://jamstack.org/generators/hexo/) as a static site generator, aligned to the Jamstack approach.

Learn more about [Hexo](https://hexo.io/docs/).

> **Implementation**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementation:
```

Same 🤓

- [Azion CLI how to build with Hexo](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/hexo/)

---

## React
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

React is listed on [the Jamstack documentation](https://jamstack.org/generators/react-static/) as a static site generator, aligned to the Jamstack approach.

Learn more about [React](https://react.dev/).

**Implementation**

- [Azion CLI how to build with React](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/react/)
- [RTM React boilerplate](/en/documentation/products/guides/react-boilerplate/)

---

## Vite
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

Vite is listed on [the Jamstack documentation](https://jamstack.org/generators/vite/) as a static site generator, aligned to the Jamstack approach.

Learn more about [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).

> - [Azion CLI how to build with Vite](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/vite/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementation:

- [Azion CLI how to build with Vite](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/vite/)
```

---

## Vue
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

Vue.js is a user-friendly, versatile, and approachable JavaScript framework for building web applications and user interfaces. Its progressive nature, reactivity system, component-based architecture, and thriving community make it a popular choice for both beginners and experienced developers in the world of front-end web development.

Learn more about [Vue](https://vuejs.org/guide/introduction.html).

> **Implementation**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementation:
```

---
title: Frameworks compatibility
description: Compatibility between Azion and web frameworks through Vulcan.
namespace: documentation_products_runtime_frameworks
meta_tags: web frameworks, jamstack
permalink: /documentation/products/devtools/frameworks-compatibility/
menu_namespace: runtimeMenu

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---

import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';

> ## [Vulcan](https://github.com/aziontech/vulcan)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Vulcan
```

Reviewer 3: It's linked in the start of the section

> [Vulcan](https://github.com/aziontech/vulcan) is Azion's framework adapter built to run on our Edge Runtime. It's an evolving project aimed at supporting various JavaScript frameworks. The project is open source and encourages community contributions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Vulcan](https://github.com/aziontech/vulcan) is the framework adapter built to run on Azion Edge Runtime. It's an evolving project aimed at supporting various JavaScript frameworks. The project is open source and encourages community contributions.
```

Reviewer 3: to avoid we/our

Azion provides different ways to get started and work with web frameworks: 

- [Azion CLI](/en/documentation/products/azion-cli/overview/)

> - [Real-Time Manager](/en/documentation/products/start-with-a-template/)

Reviewer 3: suggestion: /en/documentation/products/marketplace/templates/#acceleration-of-framework-adoption

---

## Compute x Deliver

Azion employs the terminology `compute` and `deliver` to describe the operational modes of applications within its framework:

| Mode | Description |
|-     |-            |

> |Compute | This mode is designed for applications that require computational processing at the Edge, whether it's for Front-End Server-Side Rendering (SSR) or Back-End tasks. In Compute Mode, Azion enables the execution of code and processing of dynamic content at the Edge to enhance performance and responsiveness. | 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Compute | This mode is designed for applications that require computational processing at the edge, whether it's for Front-End Server-Side Rendering (SSR) or Back-End tasks. In Compute Mode, Azion enables the execution of code and processing of dynamic content at the edge to enhance performance and responsiveness. | 
```

> |Deliver (static) | Deliver Mode is tailored for frameworks that primarily focus on handling and routing incoming requests at the Edge, with an emphasis on efficiently **serving static files**. While applications in Deliver Mode do not execute dynamic code, they excel in optimizing the delivery of static content to end-users, thereby ensuring smooth and fast content distribution. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Deliver (static) | Deliver Mode is tailored for frameworks that primarily focus on handling and routing incoming requests at the edge, with an emphasis on efficiently **serving static files**. While applications in Deliver Mode don't execute dynamic code, they excel in optimizing the delivery of static content to end-users, thereby ensuring smooth and fast content distribution. |
```

---

## Next.js 

**SSR** 
<Badge variant="accent">
  Compute
</Badge>

For Next.js Server-side rendering, Azion supports:

> - Next.js **version 12.3.1**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Next.js version `12.3.1`
```

- Pages router

> - Next Node runtime version 12.3.1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Next Node runtime version `12.3.1`
```

- Pages format
- Index page (static)
- API Route 
- SSR page
- Dynamic route
- Nested route

> Currently the following implementations are in progress and **aren't supported**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following implementations are currently in progress and **aren't supported**:
```

- Edge Runtime

> - Next.js 13.x.y features (example: `app router`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Next.js `13.x.y` features (example: `app router`)
```

:::note

> If the Next.js project isn't in **v12.3.1**, the build process won't work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the Next.js project isn't in `v12.3.1`, the build process won't work.
```

:::

**SSG**
<Badge variant="accent">

>   static

Reviewer 3: Should be Deliver?

</Badge>

Implementation:

> - [Azion CLI how to build with Next.js](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/next/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [How to build with Next.js on Azion CLI](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/next/)
```

Reviewer 2: se gostar da sugestão, mudar nos outros casos também

---

## Angular 
<Badge variant="accent">

>   static

Reviewer 3: Deliver?

- [RTM Angular boilerplate](/en/documentation/products/guides/angular-boilerplate/)

---

## Astro
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

Astro offers a modern and user-friendly method for creating websites. It blends established performance principles from decades of web development with the convenience of component-based development trends. You can use your preferred JavaScript framework and, by default, Astro ensures that only the essential JavaScript is sent to the user.

Implementation:

- [Azion CLI how to build with Astro](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/astro/)
- [RTM Astro boilerplate](/en/documentation/products/guides/astro-boilerplate/)

---

## Hexo
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

Hexo is listed on [the Jamstack documentation](https://jamstack.org/generators/hexo/) as a static site generator, aligned to the Jamstack approach.

Learn more about [Hexo](https://hexo.io/docs/).

Implementation:

- [Azion CLI how to build with Hexo](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/hexo/)

---

## React
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

> React is listed on [the Jamstack documentation](https://jamstack.org/generators/react-static/) as a static site generator, aligned to the Jamstack approach.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React is listed on the [Jamstack documentation](https://jamstack.org/generators/react-static/) as a static site generator, aligned to the Jamstack approach.
```

Learn more about [React](https://react.dev/).

Implementation:

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

- [Azion CLI how to build with React](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/react/)
- [RTM React boilerplate](/en/documentation/products/guides/react-boilerplate/)

---

## Vite
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

> Vite is listed on [the Jamstack documentation](https://jamstack.org/generators/vite/) as a static site generator, aligned to the Jamstack approach.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vite is listed on the [Jamstack documentation](https://jamstack.org/generators/vite/) as a static site generator, aligned to the Jamstack approach.
```

Learn more about [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).

Implementation:

- [Azion CLI how to build with Vite](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/vite/)

---

## Vue
<Badge variant="accent">
  static
</Badge>

> Vue.js is a user-friendly, versatile, and approachable JavaScript framework for building web applications and user interfaces. Its progressive nature, reactivity system, component-based architecture, and thriving community make it a popular choice for both beginners and experienced developers in the world of front-end web development.

Reviewer 2: achei bem mkt

| Mode | Description |
|-     |-            |
| Compute | Designed for applications that require computational processing at the edge, whether it's for Front-End Server-Side Rendering (SSR) or Back-End tasks. In Compute Mode, Azion enables the execution of code and processing of dynamic content at the edge to enhance performance and responsiveness. | 
| Deliver (static) | Tailored for frameworks that primarily focus on handling and routing incoming requests at the edge, with an emphasis on efficiently **serving static files**. While applications in Deliver Mode don't execute dynamic code, they excel in optimizing the delivery of static content to end-users, thereby ensuring smooth and fast content distribution. |

---

## Next.js 

<Badge variant="accent">
  Static
</Badge>

Implementation:

- [Azion CLI how to build with Next.js](/en/documentation/products/build/develop-with-azion/frameworks-specific/next/)

---

<Badge variant="accent">
  Compute
</Badge>

For Next.js compute mode, Azion supports:

- `runtime = 'nodejs'`
- Next.js **version 12.3.1**
- [Pages router](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages)

> - [API Route ](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/api-routes)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [API Route](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/api-routes)
```
